So let's talk about generating types,
right?
Just like, hey, I don't wanna have
to come up with all this stuff.
I want to just be able to
generate a bunch of types and
have them good and ready to go.
So what I'm gonna do is,
I'm gonna fire up the terminal.
Gotta be in the actual app if
you want the shortcuts to work.
Cool, and
there are a bunch of libraries to do this.
Prepare to be amazed.
Again, gotta be in the right window or
else typing doesn't work.
So we can do npx openapi typeScript.
So this is one that I use all the time.
This is one that I use for
our OpenAPI spec at my day job.
And I give it the path to the JSON file.
And you would probably put this
in like an NPM script, right?
In my code base,
it is NPM run generate types, right?
Then you put the output file.
In this case, we're gonna say src/,
I don't know, api.types.ts.
And then you go get a cup of coffee, and
you got a little rocket ship and
some stars.
You feel good, I feel like emoji is
the best thing to happen to everything.
And we go into the client and
open that folder up and go into source and
prepare to be at least whelmed, right?
On one hand, you didn't have
to do any of this yourself.
On the other hand,
it still is a little bit to be desired.
You get this giant,
it's actually three types.
The paths, which are all the routes and
all the information about what they take.
And then you get the schemas, which are,
in this case, user or tasks in our case.
And all the types are just generated for
you from the spec, that said,
I think if I wanted to do,
I'm editing the file says, Do not edit.
It's fine, I'm a professional.
Task is equal to schemas,
no, you'll see why.
This leaves something to be desired,
but again, you can do it, and
it's pretty good.
Component schema task,
which is a type generated
from some JSON schema,
which is the right type.
Now, you can imagine a large enough
code base this can get somewhat insane.
But you also have information about
what are all the routes, right?
So you're to have it
autocomplete the routes.
You can say,
what are the parameters that it takes?
Now, will you end up with paths,
tasks, parameters?
Yes, and I can show you the one
I use at work, it gets gnarly.
Don't worry, I have another cure coming.
But from this standard contract between
both sides, you now can generate
types based on that contract, and from
those types you can generate the schemas.
Everything we're doing by
hand you can generate.
Now, you're like,
then why did I do it by hand?
Because remember how hard it was to make
one of these contracts to begin with that
lighter weight thing might be your
first thing that you do, right?
And you start with that, and
then later you can kind of build
up to the more robust things.
Because if you had to start
to have all those schemas,
you might get to the point where defining
this becomes a lot easier, right?
So if you are starting fresh,
maybe this makes a ton of sense.
If you have tooling that already, or
a backend team, that made one of these and
you just wanna generate all your types,
like yeah, we haven't open it,
the backend team made that for me,
I just look at it by hand all the time.
Well, you can generate
your client out of it.
So it all depends on what you need to do,
but check this out.
So that was cool,
everyone likes to see that.
For my next trick, let's put it in here.
API client,
where we will grab this
import create client.
From openapi-fetch, great,
awesome, love to see it.
And then we need to the import.
We just need the type actually, type pass.
From those types that we generated.
Cool, and now we can do and say const GET,
we'll do a batch of them,
GET POST, PUT and DELETE,
which is create a client at that path.
And we're gonna say that the baseUrl,
I know it happens to be,
obviously, you put this in environment
variable, but we're not doing that.
4001, cool, and so all it did,
we generate the types based
on the open API schema.
Great, awesome, cool, right?
We grabbed this library and
it's literally just taking the types,
not even the actual schema or
anything like that.
So very lightweight because
this part will get stripped
from the build 'cause
types don't get included.
And now you can try out
stuff where it's like,
Get and look,
those are my two routes, right?
And if I choose that one,
right, I can give it a query,
And we can see that
completed ought to be true.
It has basically generated
an entire client for
making all my API requests
from the frontend code,
all completely typed for
me based on that contract, right?
I don't necessarily have to
do anything at this point.
All the routes get auto completed.
If I try to put in a query
frame that's not supported.
I think those might be optional, so
they get ignored, but other pieces.
Let's try it on the request body.
Cool.
Nope, one more curly cube.
Here, I think if I put one that's not
supported or let's actually just make
this- You can see I get the type support
to know that can't be null, all right?
It's gotta be a stringer undefined.
If I make this a number, you get the type
safety automatically, sometimes.
The optional ones,
I think you can have like TypeScript
will respect extra properties
I think is what the issue is.
The ones that are not actually because
a body is only those two, TypeScript will
ignore all extra properties in
any kind of type that you do.
It's like one of the nice things about
Typescript is if you pass, if it says,
I need a property A and B, and
you pass one with A, B, and C, and
it knows it never uses C,
it doesn't yell at you.
That way you don't have to strip
the properties out of everything,
which is great in practice and
somewhat annoying when you're trying
to make a point in front of friends.